[CEP XXXX] OCI Storage of Conda Artifacts (#115)
conda/ceps: cep-0021.md

# CEP 21 - OCI Storage of Conda Artifacts

<table>
<tr><td> Title </td><td> OCI Storage of Conda Artifacts </td>
<tr><td> Status </td><td> Proposed </td></tr>

> <tr><td> Author(s) </td><td> Wolf Vollprecht &lt;wolf@prefix.dev&gt;<br> Hind Montassif &lt;hind.montassif@quantstack.net&gt;<br> Matthew R. Becker &lt;becker.mr@gmail.com&gt;</td></tr>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<tr><td> Author(s) </td><td> Wolf Vollprecht &lt;wolf@prefix.dev&gt;<br /> Hind Montassif &lt;hind.montassif@quantstack.net&gt;<br /> Matthew R. Becker &lt;becker.mr@gmail.com&gt;<br /> Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra &lt;jaime.rogue@gmail.com&gt;</td></tr>
```

```
v1.0.0-h123456__0-main
v1.0.0-h123456__0
```

Finally, if the entire OCI tag exceeds 128 characters in length, the entire tag MUST be hashed with the SHA1 algorithm and the resulting OCI tag is then `h<SHA1 in hexadecimal>`.

#### Further Odds and Ends

- If either the OCI-encoded form of package name or the OCI tag for the conda package are hashed, then both MUST be hashed. In other words, only the two forms of the OCI artifact `<name>:<tag>` combination defined above, either unhashed or hashed, are allowed.
- Once the OCI repository `<name>` and `<tag>` are computed for the conda artifact, the rest of the OCI Distribution Spec MUST be followed.
- If an OCI registry implementation errors due to length when dealing with the full OCI form of the conda package (e.g., the combination of the registry URL and full OCI repository `<name>` for the conda package exceed some internal limit in the implementation), then that package cannot be stored in that registry and an error MUST be raised.

> - Within conda repodata, the download URL for a conda package in an OCI registry MUST always be prepended by `oci://` to indicate that the download URL is an OCI URL. The registry being used, any required ports etc. are prepended to the conda package OCI repository `<name>:<tag>` to form the full download URL per the OCI v1.0 specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The download URL for a conda package in an OCI registry MUST use the `oci://` scheme to indicate that the artifact will be downloaded from an OCI endpoint. More specifically, it MUST follow the syntax `oci://<authority>[:<port>]/[<path>/]<name>:<tag>`.
```

Author: There would be no extra <path> component here as far as I know, right?

Reviewer: Nope, just what you suggested but using the established URL terms (authority, path, etc).
